# Islandora Oral Histories Interest Group Kickoff Meeting

## Time/Place

June 07, 2017

This meeting is a hybrid teleconference and IRC chat. Anyone is welcome to join. Here is the info:
* Time: 3:00pm-4:00pm Eastern Daylight Time US (UTC-4)
* Dial-in Number: (641) 715-3570
  * Participant Code: 304589#
  * International numbers: [[Conference Call Information]]
  * Web Access: https://www.freeconferencecallhd.com/wp-content/themes/responsive/flashphone/flash-phone.php
* IRC:
  * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
  * Or point your IRC client to #islandora on irc.freenode.net


## Attendees
* Yamil Suarez, Berklee
* Tom Shorock, U of Kansas
* Kim Pham, UTSC
* Natkeeran Ledchumykanthan, UTSC
* Mark McFate, Grinnell College
* Marcus Barnes, UTSC
* Mike Demers

## Agenda

* Group Logistics
   * Timelines. This includes meeting frequency (monthly?),  duration of group - 3 months? 4 months? based on goals?
   * Assign Roles

* Discuss goals and priorities. What do you want to get out of this group? What kind of information do we want to share? Do we want to use this as a forum to troubleshoot technical issues, share workflows for making transcripts, etc? (Feel free to add your own for future discussion)
   * Overview of goals (discussing these in-depth will not happen during the kickoff, but we can list them then decide on a meeting timeline to discuss in future meetings)
   * General Goals
      * How is everyone creating transcripts? Are you auto-generating transcripts? Share tools (such as the Transcriptinator)
   * SFU
      * Who is using the [Islandora OHMS Solution Pack](https://github.com/ubermichael/islandora_solution_pack_ohms)?
   * UTSC Goals/Priorities
      * Who is using the solution pack? Can we add your name to an Affilitation or Users page in the Islandora Oral Histories Solution Pack README?
      * Side-by-side player - does anyone use this? We are consider deprecating support for this feature.
      * Any known bugs in the SP that have not yet been documented/addressed?
      * Any way to improve our tests? We currently aren't capturing all of the use cases for transcript ingest, such as native WebVTT ingest, use multiple WebVTTs, etc.

## Minutes

* Call for convenor - one convenor so far: Kim Pham. One other convenor needed to chair meetings

* Roundtable

Yamil - no solution packs for oral histories - new installation. some oral history content, to be added and to be created. some transcripts, no chance to read up on how it's being implemented, closed source software, students working on creating those, students checking them as well
Tom - not yet deployed Islandora, test boxes. Large image projects, have 3 moderate sized oral history projects in Omeka, audio files. Transcripts not in standard formats, pdfs, and scanned jpgs. Not public.
Mark - alumni relations dept. audio only oral history recordings. a few hundred to be processed. students transcribing content, transcriptions needed a lot of work (no time signatures), evaluating audiogrep and transcriptinator. employ tools in workflow, keeping an eye on alternatives.
audiogrep - mispronounced
complex - multiple people speaking, interruptions, relatively difficult to capture
daughter working on them try to get as many in, about a dozen in Islandora dark archive
modifications have been done in transcriptinator to produce transcripts
Kim - link to wiki on making transcripts. talk about modules
Mark - workflows - transcript generation
Nat - standards related to transcription - what people are using as a community? - separate topic from workflow
OHMS - used by Mike Demers, oral histories solution pack
- Migrations, discussion islandora batch into audio formats first, transcription
Marcus - other approaches and use cases, seeing that a lot of use cases for interviews and wanting to just display in a rich way. a lot of features are meant to study oral history objects, understand them in depth. deep research into oral histories. as it gets used more interested in other installations where that kind of use cases, deep research or aspect of feature set that is being used
customizations?


## Action Items
* organize next few meetings surrounding topics, themes for discussion
* send out meeting notes, call for a convenor
* send out meeting agenda and link for next meeting
* start section on known installations
* start section for resources surrounding supporting Islandora Oral Histories (Presentations, documentation, https://github.com/mantas-done/subtitles), webvtt validator


## Future Topics for Discussion

1. Transcript generation workflows - share documentation
1. Tools
1. Migrations, CLAW considerations
1. Standards for making transcripts (VTT, SRT, other subtitles needed?)
1. Accessibility
1. Use cases
1. Customizations
1. Any easy things that we can start doing? captions, screen readers, pdfs, html, segments


## IRC log

Mike_ joined the chat room.
[3:01pm] k0avg_: Hi Kim.
[3:01pm] Mike_ is now known as Guest3122.
[3:01pm] yamil: Hi Kim
[3:02pm] Guest3122 left the chat room. (Client Quit)
[3:02pm] manez: I'm on the call
[3:02pm] k0avg_: Tom Shorock, U of Kansas
[3:02pm] tolloid: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/2016-06-07-kickoff.md
[3:02pm] McFateMA: I'm on the call.... Mark McFate, Grinnell College
[3:02pm] MarcusBarnes_: Marcus Barnes, UTSC Library
[3:04pm] dunix joined the chat room.
[3:06pm] MarcusBarnes left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)
[3:08pm] Mike_Demers joined the chat room.
[3:10pm] DonRichards_ left the chat room.
[3:10pm] Mike_Demers: Hello Kim. I'm also on the call but my mic is not working well.
[3:11pm] tolloid: thanks Mike
[3:15pm] Mike_Demers: I could elaborate in chat if that works
[3:15pm] Mike_Demers: No sorry!
[3:15pm] Mike_Demers: I can hear just fine
[3:15pm] Mike_Demers: Sure.
[3:15pm] dwilcox left the chat room. (Quit: My MacBook Pro has gone to sleep. ZZZzzz…)
[3:16pm] yamil: works for me
[3:16pm] k0avg_: +
[3:17pm] McFateMA: I'm OK with monthly
[3:17pm] Mike_Demers: Monthly is fine with me
[3:18pm] McFateMA: Sounds good.
[3:18pm] MarcusBarnes_: +
[3:18pm] k0avg_: Good here
[3:19pm] yamil: yes
[3:19pm] Mike_Demers: Sounds good.
[3:20pm] Natkeeran: standards related to transcription (WebVTT etc)
[3:21pm] Natkeeran: Some users may also want to refer to  https://github.com/yorkulibraries/islandora_transcript
[3:22pm] Mike_Demers: We use OHMS to manage our oral histories but not the islandora module.
[3:23pm] Mike_Demers: We use the application to generate our transcripts. We generally use their model and tend to only create partial transcripts instead of verbatim transcription, so this works well for us.
[3:23pm] Mike_Demers: I wrote a couple xsl transforms to take the output from OHMS to generate the TRANSCRIPT datastream for the oh module
[3:24pm] Mike_Demers: Yes
[3:24pm] Mike_Demers: Regarding Hagley's usage: We have a backlog of a few hundred oral histories. We host a majority of them in islandora under the standard audio+video content models. We've been using the the module for almost a year (I think) and have roughly 90 objects utilizing it.
[3:25pm] whikloj joined the chat room.
[3:25pm] Mike_Demers: Sure, we're in the process of moving them over to the Oral History solution pack as we create transcripts.
[3:26pm] k0avg_: Makes sense.
[3:28pm] k0avg left the chat room. (Remote host closed the connection)
[3:28pm] k0avg joined the chat room.
[3:28pm] tolloid: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gYYoqJ1Y4qoG6mcfdOjw5_aVGjKZm2D6GsQYtdCB5D8/edit#gid=0
[3:29pm] MarcusBarnes_: http://digital.lib.sfu.ca/techbc-collection/techbc-memory-project
[3:29pm] jonathan_hunt joined the chat room.
[3:29pm] MarcusBarnes_: An example use of the Islandora OHMS Solution Pack.
[3:30pm] k0avg: Examples like that are always nice to feel how others are working.
[3:30pm] Mike_Demers: I have a few nitpicky requests. Should I take a look at adding them to that document or maybe put it on github?
[3:31pm] Mike_Demers: Some things I have in mind aren't necessarily bugs.
[3:31pm] MarcusBarnes_: Use enhancement labels when you create an issue.
[3:31pm] MarcusBarnes_: We treat them as feature requests.
[3:31pm] Mike_Demers: Will do Marcus, thanks.
[3:34pm] Mike_Demers: Here are our objects using the solution pack, if that helps: http://digital.hagley.org/islandora/search/?type=dismax&f[0]=RELS_EXT_hasModel_uri_ms%3A%22info%5C%3Afedora%5C/islandora%5C%3AoralhistoriesCModel%22
[3:37pm] Mike_Demers: Yes, for the display
[3:38pm] k0avg_ left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)
[3:42pm] Mike_Demers: Thank you.
[3:42pm] Natkeeran: thanks Kim
[3:42pm] yamil: ¡Gracias Kim!
[3:43pm] tolloid: thank you all for joining!
