# Islandora Oral Histories Interest Group September Meeting

## Time/Place

September 11, 2017

This meeting is a hybrid teleconference and IRC chat. Anyone is welcome to join. Here is the info:
* Time: 3:00pm-4:00pm Eastern Daylight Time US (UTC-4)
* Dial-in Number: (641) 715-3570
  * Participant Code: 304589#
  * International numbers: [[Conference Call Information]]
  * Web Access: https://www.freeconferencecallhd.com/wp-content/themes/responsive/flashphone/flash-phone.php
* IRC:
  * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
  * Or point your IRC client to #islandora on irc.freenode.net


## Attendees

* Brian Gillingham
* Clinton
* Marcus Barnes
* Nat Kanthan
* Ben Armintor
* John Cameron Avalon Media Systems, Digital Media Service Manager IU
* Don Richards UTK


## Agenda
* Updates and announcements
* Other oral histories solutions
   * Guest speaker: Ben Armintor, Head of Development, Infrastructure and Applications at Columbia University and Fedora and Samvera committer (https://github.com/barmintor). Ben will speak about the archive project funded by the Carnegie Corporation of New York to develop a software to support oral histories, and to talk about how other Hydra/Samvera projects support oral histories and other time-based media.
* Accessibility

## Minutes

### Announcements

Brian - interest in developing in Islandora a playlist - provide compound objects related to a top level object, audio, video or oral histories that play one after another in a sequence. Their need is related to music collections or interview tapes, sides of cassette tapes, 30 tapes long. To have a one page user experience view. Everyone who is interested should reply to the thread in islandora-dev community. Kim - interest in playback of large multi-part videos.

Kim - in tandem with Islandora release 7.x-1.10 sprint, we will be testing and working on the Islandora Oral Histories Solution Pack and cutting a release after the release of 7.x-1.0.

### Guest Speaker: Ben Armintor

Ben Armintor - Director of Digital libraries and technologies. Grant funded project by Carnegie Corporation, principally around the development of a solution for oral histories. Grant, initially had suggested was to work with OHMS. Some work already had been done by U of Kentucky in hydra ecosystem. Worked with Data curation experts consutlants, took OHMS existing work with historian for materials collection and oral histories Columbia Center for oral history to build out list of requirements for something like OHMS.

Oral History Projects Links - see IRC chat

OHMS, Able Player
One use cause was to take plain text oral history or anything else represented in time based media and have an interface for an editor to synchronize two different time stamps that's being transcribed
Other use cases include metadata needs, workflow management likes rights and license for access, but this would be outside the synchronizer

Looking at web annotations, IIIF. Question about whether the structural iiif Presentation API could be purposed to describe an interview that has more than one associated recording or synchronized transcript

Nat: Have you considered other standards for oral histories other than webvtt?

We looked at different possibilities. Experience with DCE suggested issues with TEI, which was the first candidate, thinking about consuming it later as a publication format. SRT webVTT readily immediately available = low hanging fruit.

OHMS has its own transcript and annotation format, working with that project to identify what a useable schema for docs would be going forward and potentially use that as an encoding format. Scope of what we had so far.

Kim: how are you indexing webvtt?

2 approaches: We attach metafields, both exist in parallel (OHMS and our project). Transcript synchronized to segments time based media. ohms index docs descriptive metadata of segments - not really used simultatenously two diff modes interact with oral history. index document represented as a webvtt structured markup instead of a plain transcript by time codes. metadata in the track of captions for documents. ohms sync tag http://www.oralhistoryonline.org/examples/

John: Are you selecting the best native format or accepting all diff formats for application?

We accept formats that you want synchronizer to use. Installing institution will decide. Segment level metadata serialization will differ depending on format. Configuration for player will support multiple webvtt tracks and supports metadata vs transcript view (borrowing from the goldenseal project)

Sync component - try to be something run against a few well defined apis current data of transcript metadata doc and pushing changes to it. Trying to reduce prescription of viewer side. ohms already uses alternative Able Player, out of the gate 2 principal communities trying to support go in diff directions, try to be agnostic about how to choose it subsequently

Nat: In sample RFP web annotation, is the goal to use web annotation standard to encode transcription itself?

As far as we know, no existing data or usage this way, most speculative of these formats to use web annotation as transcript. This is an academic exercise right now.

In large measures, making increasing use of iiif standards, more closely aligned with how iiif metadata is used
having all tools that produce things that serialization would be useful to us. But on the client side we don't have yet something that consumes this data.

Kim: More about the use case for the transcript editing interface, what were the needs there and how will it enhance their existing workflow?

Transcript vs synchronizing. Use case pertains to identifying segments of transcripts and corresponding them in time. Plain text produce time codes and edit them, less about changing text of transcript than about inserting sync metadata. There is some disjoint btw asset level cataloguing in system.

John: any public timelines or roadmap for project?

Contract through to march, will talk about it at samvera connect. 6 months or so

Thank you Ben!

### Accessibility

Don Richards: UTK subject to section 508 standard for projects w/ govt money. All new stuff coming online by law must meet these standards by January. If currently meets standards does not need to be touched retroactively, grandfathered in.

Applies to audio/video, etc. Hard to regulate video generally governed by FCC, jurisdicsiontal things broadcasted
digital media never broadcast on TV fall within 508 within not FCC

The amount of resourcing required is at a higher level than ever before. Consider may need to outsource if internal resources are not available. Currently do not have anyone dedicated to creating CC or any type oftranscripts, we do rely on automated services available, new reglations require a level of accuracy quite concerning
98% accuracy.

A lot of people have been relying on undue burden if they can't meet standards, however Dept of justice is now regulating some aspects. First time switch from suggestion to law - if videos/audio aren't made accessible to all it should not be accessible to anyone.

Interest in trying to see what everyone else is doing and if they are subject to these same restrictions.

John: UC Berkeley retroactively removing a bunch of existing content online.

### IRC Chat log

You left the chat by being disconnected from the server.

[2:48pm] tolloid: everyone is welcome to join the oral histories interest group meeting in 10 min: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/2017-09-11.md

[2:57pm] MarcusBarnes joined the chat room.

[2:59pm] Brian__ joined the chat room.

[3:02pm] barmintor joined the chat room.

[3:02pm] dwilcox left the chat room. (Quit: My MacBook Pro has gone to sleep. ZZZzzz…)

[3:02pm] barmintor: tolloid: I just hopped on!

[3:02pm] tolloid: barmintor hello!

[3:03pm] Jon__ joined the chat room.

[3:03pm] Brian__: Ben, thanks for the help in the fedora rebuild!!  Your advice really helped us.

[3:04pm] barmintor: Brian__: I'm glad y'all got a direction to go in.

[3:05pm] barmintor: (and sorry about the mysteries of NAS)

[3:07pm] Brian__: @barmintor, we all got to learn some new things, so it was a mostly-positive experience.

[3:08pm] tolloid: meeting agenda, feel free to edit: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/2017-09-11.md

[3:09pm] rlefaive left the chat room. (Quit: rlefaive)

[3:10pm] rlefaive joined the chat room.

[3:13pm] barmintor: OHMS: http://www.oralhistoryonline.org/

[3:15pm] barmintor: GoldenSeal at WUSTL: http://digital.wustl.edu/eyesontheprize/browse.html

[3:17pm] barmintor: Avalon: https://wiki.dlib.indiana.edu/display/VarVideo/Avalon+Media+System

[3:17pm] barmintor: Charon: https://repository.library.northeastern.edu/files/neu:cj82np67c

[3:22pm] tolloid: if you’re willing to share i will put it in the notes

[3:23pm] dwilcox joined the chat room.

[3:24pm] AudreyL left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)

[3:27pm] barmintor: https://github.com/cul/Carnegie-RFP-Samples

[3:28pm] Natkeeran: There is a ohms sp in Islandora as well: https://github.com/ubermichael/islandora_solution_pack_ohms

[3:31pm] barmintor: https://github.com/cul/Carnegie-RFP-Samples/blob/master/WebVTT/OHMS-Sample-003.metadata.vtt

[3:32pm] barmintor: https://github.com/cul/Carnegie-RFP-Samples/blob/master/WebVTT/OHMS-Sample-003.captions.vtt

[3:41pm] diegopino joined the chat room.

[3:42pm] diegopino: whikloj: ping

[3:42pm] whikloj: diegopino: yo

[3:42pm] diegopino: whikloj: thanks man for answering. Need to solve the book sp not passing travis

[3:43pm] diegopino: whikloj: happens that trusty gets tesseract 3.03 (only available via apt-get)

[3:43pm] diegopino: whikloj: and that one reads the many TIFF TIFF as TPIPETFF (T | F)

[3:43pm] diegopino: whikloj: so the test fails

[3:43pm] diegopino: 3.04 passes fine

[3:43pm] whikloj: diegopino: why the heck would it read an I as a |, thats so crazy

[3:44pm] diegopino: but needs to be compiled from source, as i do for precise already

[3:44pm] diegopino: whikloj: crazy right? jajajajjaa

[3:44pm] diegopino: whikloj: ok. maybe TIFF is not a common english word !

[3:44pm] diegopino: whikloj: so i need tjose

[3:44pm] barmintor: tolloid: sounds like we're done?

[3:45pm] Natkeeran: thank you, interesting work

[3:45pm] diegopino: sorry, typo: again, i need those tests passing for audits. So, i think i should basically go for compiling also for trusty

[3:46pm] diegopino: tolloid: will you make notes about your call with barmintor? (hey!) Would love to read that. Must have been  very good.

[3:46pm] tolloid: http://accessibility.psu.edu/wcag2/

[3:46pm] diegopino: whikloj: so my dilema is: i think it is an overkill to compile like 205 times..

[3:46pm] DonRichards__: Thanks

[3:47pm] barmintor: diegopino: I was very confused this morning about why travis was failing everything for database permissions- I didn't not understand the scope of change the trusty switch entailed

[3:47pm] whikloj: diegopino: Maybe we just replace the test.tiff with one not using the words "TEST TIFF TEST TIFF" over and over

[3:47pm] diegopino: barmintor: has been a pain.. but in our case, was kinda my own fault. I should have planned for our 50 repos (facepalm)

[3:48pm] diegopino: whikloj: exacto what i put into the github comment i tagged you

[3:48pm] barmintor: diegopino: I'm afraid it was a very mediocre presentation, I'll do better next time if tolloid has me back on

[3:49pm] diegopino: barmintor: can not believe that. Your talks are memorable. I still can remember the psychodelia at OR2016 That was amazing

[3:49pm] whikloj: diegopino: ok, what do you need from me then? Are you building a test with a new test file? You need a review?

[3:49pm] diegopino: tolloid: thanks for sharing. I will look at that. And barmintor thanks a lot for doing this repo-transcultural exchanges, it is really great

[3:49pm] DonRichards__: https://www.section508.gov/

[3:50pm] diegopino: whikloj: a YES: a screw the tests, lets do them again.. please

[3:51pm] whikloj: diegopino: sorry, I'm not understanding. You don't want to do the tests or you just want to run them again?

[3:51pm] diegopino: whikloj: i want to change the test cases to make then run under tesseract 3.03

[3:51pm] diegopino: and get at least that done and allow people merge their audits

[3:52pm] whikloj: diegopino: ok, sounds fine to me. We create an image with some other words in it like "HAPPY CAT HAPPY DOG" or something

[3:52pm] barmintor: tolloid: someone asked about TTML, and I see in our notes that it was assigned too low a priority in the planning stages to make the budget for the project

[3:52pm] diegopino: whikloj: ok, will go for HAPPY CAT sounds good. thanks

[3:52pm] barmintor: so that's a local concern

[3:55pm] barmintor left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)

[3:56pm] DonRichards__: https://www.fredlaw.com/news__media/2017/06/14/1548/first_federal_trial_on_website_accessibility_winn-dixie_violates_ada

[3:57pm] Natkeeran: tolloid: thank you

[3:57pm] DonRichards__: Htnkas

[3:57pm] DonRichards__: Thanks

[3:57pm] tolloid: thanks everyone!

[3:58pm] bseeger left the chat room. (Quit: Leaving.)

[4:07pm] Brian__ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 260 seconds)

[4:11pm] MarcusBarnes left the chat room. (Quit: Page closed)

[4:21pm] nat_ joined the chat room.

[4:24pm] Natkeeran left the chat room. (*.net *.split)

[4:25pm] islandora-git: [islandora_openseadragon] patdunlavey opened pull request #82: Islandora 2060 (7.x...ISLANDORA-2060) https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_openseadragon/pull/82

[4:27pm] axfelix joined the chat room.

[4:28pm] Jon__ left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 260 seconds)

[4:30pm] tolloid: diegopino ben did a great job! I’ll put up the notes soon

[4:30pm] diegopino: tolloid: great!! Living in the same city and i never get the chance to listen to him. He is just amazing

[4:31pm] diegopino: tolloid++ thanks for getting great people together

[4:31pm] tolloid:

[4:31pm] diegopino: this stuff is so good for the community

[4:32pm] diegopino: tolloid: ok, have to go. whikloj seems like HAPPY CAT and HAPPY DOG should be passing (if i got it right)

