# Islandora Oral Histories Interest Group Meeting

## Time/Place

July 12, 2017

This meeting is a hybrid teleconference and IRC chat. Anyone is welcome to join. Here is the info:
* Time: 3:00pm-4:00pm Eastern Daylight Time US (UTC-4)
* Dial-in Number: (641) 715-3570
  * Participant Code: 304589#
  * International numbers: [[Conference Call Information]]
  * Web Access: https://www.freeconferencecallhd.com/wp-content/themes/responsive/flashphone/flash-phone.php
* IRC:
  * Join the #islandora chat room via [Freenode Web IRC](http://webchat.freenode.net/) (enter a unique nick)
  * Or point your IRC client to #islandora on irc.freenode.net


## Attendees
* Kim Pham, UTSC (convenor)
* Mark McFate, Grinnell College
* Luke Ferdinand, The University of Pittsburgh
* Brian Gillingham, The University of Pittsburgh
* Clinton Graham, The University of Pittsburgh
* Don Richards, UTK
* Melissa Anez, Islandora Foundation
* Peter MacDonald, Hamilton College
* Mike Demers, Hagley Museum & Library
* Marcus Barnes, UTSC
* Nat Kanthan, UTSC (notes)

## Agenda
* Updates and announcements
* Workflows - generating transcripts, ingesting oral histories
   * Mark McFate (Grinnell College) - https://github.com/DigitalGrinnell/Transform_InqScribe_to_IOH
   * Use cases
* Share your use cases if you haven't already - we are trying to document all use cases, to potentially identify synergies between different institutions and to better understand how everyone hopes to access, interact with and preserve oral histories
* What formats of subtitles does everyone have or prefer to use? TXT, WEBVTT, TTML, SRT? Why? How are they being generated?
* What kind of work are you doing surrounding oral histories? Any software development work?
* Staffing - who is involved in your oral histories workflows? How many people do you thikn you need?
* Handling some of the formatting options of WebVTT like italics, bold, and the class tags "<c>".  Also, this relates to how the WebVTT format is not legal to be used as HTML.  Brian Gillingham (University of Pittsburgh) - separately, https://github.com/ulsdevteam/transcripts_ui/commits/master and https://github.com/ulsdevteam/islandora_solution_pack_oralhistories/commits/uls_install
Is your name on the [participants](https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group#participants) list?

## Minutes

Kim - Meetings will happen first Wednesday of each month at 3 pm Eastern time.  We will have a structured agenda.  We will have time for unstructured discussion as well.  Contributors are welcomed to add Agenda items and suggest topics.

Marcus - We have cut a release of a Oral Histories Solution Pack last week.  Release corresponds to the Islandora release versions.  Users are welcome to provide feedback, bug reports and feature requests.

Mark McFate - The OH collection we have been working with is not ready for public consumption.  I’ve done some screen capture of the workflow: https://github.com/DigitalGrinnell/Transform_InqScribe_to_IOH.  We started this project about eight months ago.  We have several hundred objects.  We initially used Audiogrep, but ran into some issues.  We also tried to use Transcriptinator, where we ran into some issues as well.  We then switched to this workflow using Inqscribe and some additional tooling  after listening input from the OH Interest Group.  This workflow has worked well for us.  The python script is not difficult to install.

?? - Because you using video, are there any features that you are not able to take advantage of?

Mark McFate - No, I don’t think it would be much different for video.

Brian Gillingham - Looks good.  We have been exploring CSS styling for WebVTT.  This gives us some ideas as to how to proceed.

Mark McFate - We also explored WebVTT.  But,


Kim - Are speaker tags in the XML?

Mark McFate - Our primary use is the Alumni Oral Histories.  There has been a lot interest from other people in the campus to do similar work with video.

Kim - Who are the main users?

Mark McFate - Number of classes are interested in taking advantage of this.  Students will be submitting video as part of their course work.  We have recently built a video studio.

Peter MaCodnald  - We use Islandora Oral Histories for Language Learning.  You can repeat phrases by clicking on the Repeat button. - http://cjf.dhinitiative.org/islandora/object/cjf%3A122?solr_nav[id]=74cd5579a4927740e711&solr_nav[page]=0&solr_nav[offset]=0

Brian Gillingham - We have some legacy content that was originally uploaded to Youtube.  We also some have content related to the 50 year history of the library.  Some of the content is in Chinese language.  Really good to see the Hamliton Japanese example.

One of the the use cases that go us into the Oral Histories are multi-lingual content that need translation, similar to the Hamilton college example.

Don Richards - Accessibility laws are coming into effect January 2018.  We need to transcribe videos and present them.  We don’t have a large collection of videos.

Kim - Initially it started out as a solution for one faculty member’s Oral Histories research.  Oral histories about a person and documents and materials related to them.  Other faculty members are using for research and coursework.  A new feature looking into the workflow for student depositing oral histories and providing consent for the required rights.


Kim - What format for subtitles or transcriptions are people using?
Nat - Trying to see what type of formats are people are using.

Mark McFate - We are not sure which format to use.  We initially ingested SRT.  We ran into some issues. Then we converted it to WebVTT and ingested.  Still facing issues, specially related to styling.

Marcus - We initially developed XML support.  WebVTT was added to support use cases related to accessibility.  Currently it does not support styling. However, others have done work towards supporting styling.  We would certainly review this use case.

(Marcus - This Interest Group is to discuss use cases, workflows, standards, tooling related oral histories in general and not just about the Oral Histories Solution Pack. )


IRC

tolloid: if anyone is interested in attending the Islandora Oral Histories Interest Group meeting we will be starting in 7 minutes
[2:54pm] MarkM: Yes, that's what I'm here for.
[2:54pm] MarkM: Anyone in the VOIP call yet?
[2:56pm] tolloid: I’ll call in now
[2:56pm] MarkM: OK, I'm in...I think.
[2:58pm] MarkM: A new script for preparing oral histories for ingest to the Islandora Oral Histories Solution Pack... https://github.com/DigitalGrinnell/Transform_InqScribe_to_IOH
[2:59pm] DonRichards_ joined the chat room.
[3:01pm] • manez is on the call too
[3:03pm] tolloid: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group/blob/master/meetings/2017-07-12.md
[3:03pm] mdemers: HI this is Mike Demers. Looks like I'm having microphone issues again.
[3:04pm] tolloid: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Oral-Histories-Interest-Group
[3:04pm] MarcusBarnes joined the chat room.
[3:05pm] pmacdona joined the chat room.
[3:06pm] pmacdona left the chat room. (Client Quit)
[3:09pm] tolloid: https://github.com/digitalutsc/islandora_solution_pack_oralhistories/releases/tag/7.x-1.9
[3:11pm] tolloid: https://github.com/DigitalGrinnell/Transform_InqScribe_to_IOH
[3:13pm] DonRichards_: Yep. Nice
[3:17pm] tolloid: very neat MarkM++
[3:19pm] jvwoolf joined the chat room.
[3:28pm] axfelix left the chat room. (Ping timeout: 240 seconds)
[3:28pm] DonRichards_: Section 508 requirements
[3:30pm] DonRichards_: Anyone else focussed on the new accessibility regulations that go into effect January?
[3:34pm] DonRichards_: cjf.dhinitiative.org
[3:34pm] rlefaive left the chat room. (Quit: rlefaive)
[3:36pm] islandora-git: [islandora_videojs] jonathangreen pushed 1 new commit to isset: https://github.com/Islandora/islandora_videojs/commit/b1d097628f6b83ebe115e7b03cbce7323c555a1c
[3:36pm] islandora-git: islandora_videojs/isset b1d0976 Jonathan Green: Fix coder issue.
[3:42pm] tolloid: https://www.w3.org/TR/ttaf1-dfxp/
[3:43pm] tolloid: https://www.w3.org/TR/ttml2/
[3:47pm] nat_: https://github.com/digitalutsc/islandora_solution_pack_oralhistories/blob/7.x/tests/fixtures/test.xml
[3:54pm] axfelix joined the chat room.
[3:54pm] DonRichards_:
